In the document, in section Results, 
there are three parts: 1] Single-objective optimization of imaging parameters,
then 2] Multi-objective optimization of super-resolution images,
then 3] Fully autmated optimization of STED imaging parameters.
I want to focus on the first two sections only. 
Section 1] details in each paragraph, a different idea:
first it explain the basic xps, then the result on optimizing a single parameter with basic grid-search approach, then with Kernel TS, then turning to different score defined by an expert from multiple indicators.
Likewise, Section 2] is organized in different paragraph.

------


Intro:

Super-resolution techniques have revolutionized the field of
optical microscopy by overcoming the diffraction limit and
allowing the observation of protein dynamics at the
nanoscale1,2. Among these techniques, point scanning methods
such as STimulated Emission Depletion (STED)3 and REversible
Saturable Optical Linear Fluorescence Transition (RESOLFT)4
are particularly well suited for the study of dynamical processes in
living cells or multicolor imaging5–7. However, as they are further
developed, along with the continuous evolution of bio-imaging
tools and experimental paradigms, these super-resolution methods
come with several layers of complexity in their implementation
in the laboratory8–10. Such complexity calls for the
development of automation strategies to increase accessibility of
super-resolution microscopy for live-cell, multicolor, and multimodal
imaging.
The success of the imaging process depends on the tuning of
many parameters, such as laser excitation and depletion power,
pixel size, scanning speed, detector gating, and illumination
scheme. Concretely, this success is characterized by the evaluation
of different, possibly conflicting, objectives (e.g. improving resolution
and signal to noise ratio (SNR), while reducing photobleaching,
light exposure, and imaging time). Furthermore, the
range of relevant imaging parameters may be greatly influenced
by the biological structure, the fluorophores, the experimental
conditions, and the biological variability. Gaining experience with
these experimental settings requires considerable time and
resources, discouraging many from using super-resolution
microscopy for complex tasks, such as live-cell imaging.
We propose here an online machine learning approach to
improve the performance of optical nanoscopy by addressing an
online optimization problem, where the aim is to maximize the
outcome (here the objectives) during the real imaging phase. We
formulate this problem under the multi-armed bandits framework11
and tackle it using the Kernel TS12 approach, which
combines posterior sampling with kernel regression to efficiently
model each objective. We achieve multi-objective (MO) optimization
by first including an expert into the optimization routine
that is providing feedback on the quality of acquired images and
on the trade-offs that can be made among the different objectives.
Next, we propose to remove the user from the loop using artificial
neural networks to automate the overall image quality evaluation13
and to articulate the expert preference among optimization
objectives. This combined approach results in a fully automated
system for optimizing imaging parameters online. We show that
complex techniques such as STED, multimodal microscopy, or
live-cell optical nanoscopy strongly benefit from a fully automated
parameter optimization. This strategy could be implemented
on a wide range of microscopes, without restriction to
super-resolution, to conduct the optimization simultaneously
with the imaging task. This strategy should increase the efficiency
of the imaging process and standardize the results.

=> Applicative context:  Bandit for optimization. 


Single-objective optimization of imaging parameters. 

Traditional,
offline optimization techniques search for good parameters
in a prior exploration phase (also known as pure exploration),
followed by the phase of imaging (also known as exploitation).
Online optimization algorithm, on the other hand, acquires
images with different parameters, as it explores the parameter
space, and is learning which regions in the parameter space result
in better or worse images while simultaneously attempting to
produce suitable images. This results in the so-called explorationexploitation
trade-off14, which is the main scope of the wellknown
multi-armed bandits framework11. Here, we consider a
bandits algorithm combining kernel regression and Thompson
Sampling (TS)15, namely Kernel TS12, to capture the underlying
structure of the parameter space and efficiently model each
objective.

=>  Offline optimization (no data acquisition) vs online optimization with bandits (sampling by trial an error, sequentially).

In order to illustrate the potential gains of conducting an
online optimization compared with a conventional pure exploration
approach, we first considered optimizing one imaging
parameter toward one objective (Supplementary Figure 1). More
specifically, we designed a replay experiment (see Methods) to
compare the proposed Kernel TS-based approach with a basic
grid search (GS, a commonly used approach in biology) on the
same set of images, removing the effect of variability throughout
biological samples. To this end, we generated a dataset of 468
STED images of the axonal periodical actin lattice, a biological
structure only detectable with optical nanoscopy, as the
periodicity of actin rings is approximately 180 nm16 (Fig. 1a).
The images were acquired at 12 evenly distributed laser excitation
power values. Briefly, the replay experiment consisted in
simulating the imaging at a given parameter by sampling, from
the dataset, images that had been acquired previously using this
parameter. To quantify the success of the imaging process, we
evaluated different measurements that were compatible with
online analysis on a standard computer: the autocorrelation
amplitude of the actin periodical pattern17, the SNR, the
photobleaching, and the Fourier Ring Correlation (FRC)18,19
(Fig. 1b and Supplementary Figures 2 & 3). With the excitation
power as the parameter to optimize, we considered the
autocorrelation as the objective to maximize (Fig. 1c). More
specifically, we defined the relevant parameter region as four
powers between 4.0 and 9.7 μW, corresponding to maximal
values of the resulting autocorrelation target function (Fig. 1c).

=> First single paratmer toward one objective:  parameter values = actions of the bandit,
single bjective= real-value = reward to be maximized.

Experiment with replay method: fixed data set of 39*12 images, representing 39 possible samples for 12 possible actions.
We compare sampling strategies by simulating the imaging at a given parameter by samplin amongst the 39 images that had been acquired previously using this parameter.
Four measurements are made to build a score. In this first experiment, only the autocorrelation is used to defined the score. In later experiment, we will mix the four values.
For the autocorrelation score, it appears that four actions are considered optimal amongst the 12 (not just one). This enables to define a regret: cumulative score gap with respect to these actions. 


Each replay trial consisted in 60 images, i.e. 5 images per laser
power for GS. In the case of Kernel TS, the number of images per
laser power varied depending on the exploitation-exploration
trade-off and the resulting confidence on the different regions of
the parameter space. This resulted in more selections of excitation
power values associated with a higher autocorrelation amplitude
(4.0−9.7 μW) (Fig. 1d and Supplementary Figure 4). We
characterized the performance of our optimization algorithm by
counting the number of imaging failures, the success being the
ability to distinguish clearly the axonal periodical lattice on an
image (Fig. 1e). This is related to the regret measure used to
characterize bandits optimization algorithms, which must be
minimized (in opposition to success) (Supplementary Figure 5).
While an oblivious algorithm would lead to a linear (tendency)
regret along time, learning algorithms are known to achieve
sublinear (e.g. square root or logarithmic) regret20. Results
showed a clear sublinear trend in the average regret curve for
Kernel TS in comparison to the linear trend obtained with GS. In
each of the 100 replay trials, we compared the absolute deviation
between the estimated and targeted autocorrelation for the most
often selected parameter by Kernel TS (Fig. 1f). As expected, by
allocating more samples to potentially better parameters,
especially for a measure varying strongly with the chosen
biological region (Fig. 1c), Kernel TS was able to provide a better
estimate of the autocorrelation objective function compared with
GS (Fig. 1f). These results support the benefits of online
parameter optimization and the applicability of Kernel TS for
the task and, more importantly, highlight the benefits of online
optimization.


We compare two strategies: a grid-search, that samples evenly 5 images for each 12 actions, resulting in 60 trials, 12 of which are on the best action, and the others on sub-optimal ones.
then, a bandit strategy, more preisely kernel-TS, that samples adaptively, the ations, for a total of 60 trials. Progressively, thanks to the feedback it receives after each proposed action,
the bandit strategy adapts to sample better arms more often. 
We measure the success by number of imaging failures (to be minimized), and by cumualtive regret.



Diverse studies have shown that factors, such as resolution,
detected signal, imaging speed, and even the type of imaged
structures strongly influence the resulting imaging quality21–24.
Quality assessment of super-resolution images has been performed
in an offline fashion using dedicated software21. Here, we
rely on a scoring system of the overall image quality rated by an
expert user based on the signal, the noise level, and the observed
resolution, allowing several objectives to be jointly considered.
With our neuronal samples, this quality rating was found to be
less dependent on biological variability than autocorrelation and
could better characterize images with very low signal levels.
Indeed, in comparison to flat, rounded cells, neurons provide less
uniform signals, due to the complex and highly variable shapes of
neuronal processes, which may explain why classical approaches,
such as SNR evaluation or FRC, sometimes fail to evaluate the
image quality (Supplementary Figures 2 & 3). We updated our
dataset by manually rating the 468 super-resolution images
(Fig. 1g). The relevant parameter region for the quality remains
the same as for the autocorrelation. As described above for the
autocorrelation objective, we performed replay experiments,
using image quality as feedback to Kernel TS. The cumulative
regret curve (Fig. 1i) still displayed a sublinear trend. By
allocating more samples to relevant parameters (Fig. 1h), an
online optimization approach (hereby Kernel TS) is able to
provide a better estimate of the objective function at the most
often sampled parameter (Fig. 1j), compared to an offline strategy
(hereby GS). These results indicate that a quality score provides a
fast and reliable measurement for online optimization of superresolution
images.


Multi-objective optimization of super-resolution images. 

To obtain optimal super-resolution images, multiple objectives must
be considered, many of which having potential conflicts. Thus,
several imaging parameters have to be optimized by making
trade-offs. This calls for an efficient MO and multi-parameter
optimization strategy. We tackle this task by (i) relying on
independent instances of Kernel TS to model each objective
function and (ii) letting an expert provide feedback about its
preference articulation among objectives, thereby guiding the MO
optimization process (Methods and Supplementary Figure 6). In
the proposed MO optimization setting, the benefits of online
optimization are highlighted by comparing the Kernel TS-based
approach with offline optimization using the Non-dominated
Sorting Genetic Algorithm (NSGA-II) (that is better suited than
GS for MO optimization)25. NSGA-II searches the parameters
space in order to identify the parameter configurations lying
anywhere on the Pareto front, that is the ensemble of all nondominated
trade-offs between objectives (i.e. solutions for which
there are no other better solutions over all objectives)26. Simulation
and experimental results comparing the performance of
NSGA-II and Kernel TS optimization are shown in Supplementary
Figures 7, 8 and 9. As expected from an offline approach,
NSGA-II is able to identify multiple trade-offs, but requires a
large number of poor images to achieve this result. Though other
online optimization approaches (e.g. GP-UCB27, Kernel UCB28)
could be considered in the single-objective optimization setting,
Kernel TS is especially well-suited for the described MO optimization
setting as it can generate options that are informative
about the underlying objective function (see Methods), rather
than maintaining upper confidence bounds or other similar
indices.

One frequently faced challenge in super-resolution microscopy,
when addressing a new biological question, is to adapt the
imaging parameters to a new fluorophore. We investigated if
Kernel TS could be used in such a case by comparing the
optimization routine when using three far-red emitting dyes
(ATTO647, STAR RED, and Alexa633) for STED imaging of the
protein α-tubulin in fixed neurons. ATTO 647 and STAR RED
are known to be good fluorophores for STED nanoscopy due to
their high quantum yield and photostability29. To our knowledge,
due to its low photostability30, no work featuring Alexa633 with
this technique has been published, even if it is a very common
fluorophore for confocal microscopy. An optimization sequence
consisted of searching within 768 possible parameter configurations
(pixel dwelltime, excitation and depletion laser power) using
only 100 images, while pursuing two conflicting objectives:
maximizing the image quality and minimizing photobleaching.
The parameter hyper-volume was kept constant, and we
evaluated the most frequently selected parameter combination
for each fluorophore (Fig. 2b). For all fluorophores, the
optimization process allowed to achieve high image quality
(Fig. 2a). Even if the results obtained for photobleaching and
image quality were comparable for ATTO647 and STAR RED
(Fig. 2a, c), the parameter combination leading to these results
were different (regions featuring blue and orange circles in
Fig. 2b). We also observed that high-quality images could be
obtained with Alexa633, but at a lower rate than with the other
two dyes (Fig. 2c). In contrast to the other dyes, very low
excitation powers (15-fold lower than for ATTO647) were
required for Alexa633 in order to control the photobleaching
and therefore achieve the targeted trade-offs (Fig. 2b). These
results show that our MO optimization routine can effectively
provide optimal parameters to select with different fluorophores
in order to obtain better images. Additional results for
characterizing the reproducibility and comparison with manual
optimization by a human expert are provided in Supplementary
Figures 10 and 11.

Next, we assessed the performance of the proposed MO
optimization approach in the context of high biological variability
and limited number of measurements (images) per sample. We
performed live imaging of an intracellular protein involved in
synaptic signaling, α Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase
II (αCaMKII)31,32, in dendrites and spines of cultured neurons.
With super-resolution microscopy, αCaMKII should appear as a
dense array of discrete puncta33. One major challenge in superresolution
imaging of living cells is to reduce the photobleaching
and phototoxicity associated with repeated imaging and high
intensity illumination, while preserving high resolution and
signal34. The optimization was conducted by simultaneously
varying the laser excitation power, the laser depletion power, and
the pixel dwelltime. An optimization trial consisted of searching
among 343 possible parameter configurations, using only 80
images due to the limited imaging time per live sample (Fig. 2d).
Three objectives were considered: (i) the quality of the first STED
image, (ii) the quality of the second STED image, and (iii) the
photobleaching. We observed that the available trade-offs
between the objectives and the optimal parameter space were
highly variable between the samples, either day to day or across
coverslips, even though each contained the same protein of
interest (αCaMKII-SNAP-SiR) (Fig. 2f and Supplementary
Figures 12 and 13). We observed an improvement of the image
quality along the optimization process (Fig. 2e and Supplementary
Figure 14), while the photobleaching could be kept below
50% after two STED images. These results indicate that despite
the high biological variability of the preparation under study,
online optimization could help in improving the robustness of the
imaging process.

We also assessed the suitability of our method to other
commonly used cell types and probes by evaluating the
performance of online Kernel TS-based optimization on: (1)
various GFP-tagged structures in live neurons, Human Embryonic
Kidney (HEK293) and pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells and
(2) variable staining intensities of the actin cytoskeleton in fixed
neurons. Using fluorescent proteins for STED imaging poses an
additional challenge for time-lapse live imaging due to photobleaching.
Although the label was the same (GFP) for many
targeted structures, we observed that the (i) day-to-day biological
variability, (ii) cell type, (iii) level of expression, and (iv) density
of the target protein strongly influenced the imaging parameters
and the outcomes (image quality, photobleaching, imaging speed)
(Fig. 3a and Supplementary Figures 15–31). The most frequently
sampled parameters to obtain good trade-offs between the
objectives varied greatly across cell types expressing LifeAct
(Fig. 3a, Supplementary Figures 15–31). For the three presented
optimization sequences, good trade-offs between objectives were
achieved (Supplementary Figures 21, 22, 24–27, 29, 30), which
resulted in a sublinear accumulation of low-quality and high
photobleaching images (Fig. 3b). Detailed results showing
multiple optimization sequences for each presented structure
and cell types as well as for other GFP-tagged proteins are
presented in Supplementary Figures 15–31. In all cases, online
optimization improved the quality of STED images acquired from
living cells.


One might expect that previous knowledge from an optimization
sequence acquired on a different sample could accelerate the
optimization process. We tested for this possibility with live-cell
imaging and quantified the proportion of good quality images
with low photobleaching and imaging time. We analyzed the
results obtained with previous knowledge generated from
optimization sequences (100 images) (i) of a standard reference
sample for super-resolution microscopy (GATTAQUANT Nanobeads),
and (ii) of a transfected postsynaptic marker (PSD95-
FingR-GFP) (Supplementary Figures 15–17)35. We observed that
previous knowledge could not reliably improve and accelerate the
optimization process depending on cell types, structures, and dayto-
day variability. For example, using the previous knowledge
from GATTAQUANT Nanobeads OG488 negatively impacted
the performance when imaging proteins in neurons and HEKcells
(Supplementary Figures 18, 19, 21–24, 26, 27), while
positively impacting when imaging LifeAct-GFP in PC12 cells
(Supplementary Figures 29 and 30). We also tested if previous
knowledge would accelerate the optimization process by reducing
the hyper-volume of optimization parameters. For this experiment,
we applied MO optimization to a common problem in cell
imaging, the variability in labeling density. We performed Kernel
TS optimization (100 images) on two fixed neuronal samples in
which the actin cytoskeleton was stained with (1) low (1:1000)
and (2) high (1:100) concentration of phalloidin-STAR635
(Supplementary Figures 32, 33). We reduced the hyper-volume of
imaging parameters using the regions that were sampled more
often during the full optimization sequence to perform two new
optimization experiments on the low dye concentration sample.
When using the reduced hyper-volume from the high dye
concentration, high-quality images with low photobleaching were
obtained for only 38% of the images (19 out of 50 images with
Quality > 60% and Photobleaching < 60%) and the actin rings
were detected in only 22 of the 50 images (Supplementary
Figure 32e). In contrast when using the reduced hyper-volume
resulting from optimization on the same sample, the trade-off
between objectives resulted in better trade-offs (39 out of 50
images with Quality > 60% and Photobleaching < 60%) and actin
rings were clearly visible on 48 out of 50 images (Supplementary
Figure 32e). These results emphasize that prior knowledge to
reduce the hyper-volume of parameters is not always reliable for
optimizing super-resolution microscopy and depends on the
difference between the chosen biological samples. By adapting to
the staining quality, online optimization can help to detect
structures that could otherwise have been missed with nonoptimal
imaging parameters.

As a last illustration of the benefits of the proposed online MO
optimization approach based on Kernel TS, we complexified the task
by combining optimization of local glutamate uncaging in living
neurons with parameter optimization of STED microscopy
(Fig. 4a–c). Multimodal approaches combining optical stimulation
and fluorescence microscopy have been widely used to correlate
morphological changes and neuronal activity. The goals of this
experiment were to acquire STED images of the NMDA receptor
subunit GluN2B36 (Fig. 3c) and to elicit a local synaptic response,
restricted inside an identified dendritic spine, using focal MNIGlutamate
photo-uncaging near the spine head. To monitor the
synaptic response, we measured Ca2+ fluctuations revealed by the
genetically encoded Ca2+ indicator GCaMP6s37 (Fig. 4a, b). We
aimed to optimize the laser power and distance from the spine of the
uncaging spot, with the objectives of minimizing the local spread of
the response (response size ratio) and maximizing the intensity of
GCaMP6s response (ΔF/F peak intensity). The response size ratio
was calculated as a ratio of the region where a Ca2+ transient was
detected and the whole dendritic area (seeMethods). A response was
considered to be local if the response size ratio was non-zero and
below a threshold, referred later as the response size threshold. A
random sampling (RS) of parameters was conducted as a baseline of
comparison with Kernel TS (Fig. 4e). Due to high biological
variability between samples regarding the parameters and the
responsiveness of the neurons (Supplementary Figures 34 and 35),
images obtained during several trials were considered together in a
bootstrapping analysis (see Methods). While local responses were
observed using RS, their relative frequency compared to widespread
responses was significantly lower than with Kernel TS (Fig. 4f,
Supplementary Figure 36, and Methods). According to the posterior
regression model, only a very tight range of parameter configurations
led to local responses (Fig. 4d). Kernel TS increased the success
rate of obtaining a localized Ca2+ response (Fig. 4f) and found wellperforming
parameters to be very variable between the samples
(Supplementary Figure 34). As a trend, we observed that local
stimulation could be performed with moderate power (20–30 μW)
at 500 nm from the spine head, which corresponds to distances
regularly used in such experiments38 or alternatively with distances
up to 2 μm by increasing the uncaging laser power (35–40 μW)
(Fig. 4d, e). Likewise, a high variability in the nanoscale
reorganization of GluN2B in spines following the photostimulation
was observed and will be the subject of future investigation.



As expected, when considering multimodal imaging, the
success probability of achieving all objectives without optimization
is very low (Fig. 4f, g). Indeed, a threefold increase was
observed in the frequency of success (simultaneous local uncaging
response and high STED image quality) between the beginning
(mostly random exploration) and the end of the imaging process
driven by optimization (10.7−29.4%) (Fig. 4g). These results
show the benefits of using online parameter optimization when
tackling multifaceted task that would require considerable and
advanced experience, or extremely long sequences of attempts to
identify the right parameters to use.